doc/manual/source/index.rst, before:

A KMIP to PKCS#11 Relay
=======================

.. only:: html

   |lastupdated| |mastodon|

   .. |lastupdated| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/NLnetLabs/kmip2pkcs11?path=%2Fdoc%2Fmanual&label=last%20updated
      :alt: Last docs update
      :target: https://github.com/NLnetLabs/kmip2pkcs11/commits/main/doc/manual/source

   .. |mastodon| image:: https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/114692612288811644?domain=social.nlnetlabs.nl&style=social
      :alt: Mastodon
      :target: https://social.nlnetlabs.nl/@nlnetlabs

.. warning::

    This project is at an experimental stage and is very much
    a work-in-progress. It should not be used in production deployments at this
    time. Furthermore, the functionality and interfaces offered should be
    considered unstable.

This Rust application accepts `KMIP
<https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/tc-community-home2?CommunityKey=39d0c648-0a66-4f46-b343-018dc7d3f19c>`_
requests, converts them to `PKCS#11
<https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/tc-community-home2?CommunityKey=922ef643-1e10-4d65-a5ea-018dc7d3f0a4>`_
format and executes them against a loaded PKCS#11 library.

Installing or building
----------------------

As the KMIP to PKCS#11 relay (:program:`kmip2pkcs11`) is currently only intended for use
with `Cascade`_, please refer to the
installation or building instructions of Cascade `here
<https://cascade.docs.nlnetlabs.nl/en/latest/installation.html>`_.

Use Cases
---------

Shielding Cascade against an untrusted PKCS#11 library (intended use case)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The use case for which this application is primarily being developed is to
enable `Cascade <https://github.com/NLnetLabs/cascade/>`_ to make use of
a Hardware Security Module (HSM) via a PKCS#11 interface without having to load
an untrusted 3rd party PKCS#11 library into its process.

This is particularly important for a Rust application as the PKCS#11 interface
exposes the application to code that is likely not protected by the guarantees
provided by the Rust compiler, as the PKCS#11 is a foreign function interface
beyond which the Rust compiler cannot see.

If the PKCS#11 library experiences a fatal error that may not be reason to exit
the parent application, whether that is appropriate is highly dependent
on the purpose of that application. Any STDOUT and STDERR output produced by
the PKCS#11 library may also become mixed with output from the application
itself which can be confusing.

Other use cases
"""""""""""""""

This project could potentially act as the basis for a general purpose KMIP to
PKCS#11 relay. However, at present and for the foreseeable future we plan only
to implement the tiny fraction of the KMIP specification needed by the Cascade
project, and the only KMIP client that will be tested against will be Cascade.

However, the supported requests cover only the small fraction of the KMIP
specification this application implements support for only a limited fraction of
the entire interface defined by the applicable versions of the KMIP and PKCS#11
specifications, specifically whatever is needed to power our own projects.

Technical foundations
"""""""""""""""""""""

This application is possible thanks to the following foundational Rust crates on which it builds:

- `cryptoki <https://crates.io/crates/cryptoki>`_
- `kmip-protocol <https://crates.io/crates/kmip-protocol>`_
- `kmip-ttlv <https://crates.io/crates/kmip-ttlv>`_
- `rustls <https://crates.io/crates/rustls>`_
- `tokio <https://crates.io/crates/tokio>`_

The code of the `keyls <https://github.com/ximon18/keyls>`_ tool served as a very
useful starting point as it already supported both KMIP and PKCS#11 albeit only
as a client and not as a server.

Prerequisites
-------------

- A TLS certificate and key such as the example ones available here: https://github.com/rustls/hyper-rustls/blob/main/examples/. Note: This application may be updated in future to use a pre-shared key approach instead.

- A PKCS#11 library and associated HSM to interact with, either a real hardware device or a virtual HSM such as https://www.softhsm.org/.

Supported protocols
-------------------

This application currently only supports KMIP via the TCP+TLS+TTLV transport. There is no support for the HTTPS+XML or HTTPS+JSON transports defined by the KMIP profiles specification.

Supported operations
--------------------

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| KMIP Operation                                                                                           | PKCS#11 Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Limitations                                                         |
+==========================================================================================================+=========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+=====================================================================+
| `Activate <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613546>`_         | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Returns with success as PKCS#11 has no notion of object activation. |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Create Key Pair <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613529>`_  | `C_GenerateKeyPair <https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc235002392>`_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Only supports RSA and ECDSA at present.                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Discover Versions                                                                                        | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Get <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613538>`_              | `C_FindObjectsInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002352>`_, `C_FindObjects <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002353>`_, `C_FindObjectsFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002354>`_ & `C_GetAttributeValue <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002350>`_                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Modify Attribute <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613542>`_ | C_SetAttributeValue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Query <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613552>`_            | C_GetSlotInfo, C_GetTokenInfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Sign <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613558>`_             | `C_FindObjectsInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002352>`_, `C_FindObjects <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002353>`_, `C_FindObjectsFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002354>`_, `C_SignInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002372>`_, `C_Sign <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002373>`_ & `C_SignFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc2350023753>`_ |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| N/A                                                                                                      | C_GetFunctionList, C_GetInfo, C_Initialize                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Usage
-----

For the command line options, see :doc:`man/kmip2pkcs11`

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:
   :caption: Manual Pages
   :name: toc-manual-pages

   man/kmip2pkcs11
   man/kmip2pkcs11-config.toml

Commit message:

Address config file deficiencies and related documentation weaknesses. (#18)
Fixes:
* Only drop privileges if `daemonize = true`, as docs state.
* Override config file settings with command line arguments. Also for log settings which should fix #13.
* Deny unknown fields in the config file.
* Allow daemon identity to be user only without group.

Changes:
* Remove undocumented untested chroot support.
* Add `--check-config`.
* Add config file support for daemonization settings.
* Update the sample config files to match the new syntax.
* Implement (de)serialization from/to `user_id:group_id` string format.
* Move config types into new sub-crate and switch to a Rust workspace layout.
* Make config types serializable.
* Re-export `daemonbase`.
* `impl From<v1::Config> for Config`.
* `impl Default for ListenSocket`.

Docs:
* FIX: Broken link to kmip2pkcs11 docs.
* FIX: Another broken link to kmip2pkcs11 docs.
* FIX: Missing log prefix on level and target configuration file settings.
* FIX: Should use kebab-case for settings in the example config file.
* Point Sphinx/ReadTheDocs at the correct location to find the package version now that we use a Rust workspace.
* Reflow long doc lines.
* Align config file docs with those of Cascade.
* Align man page content with that of Cascade.
* Add missing fields to config example in documentation.
* State more accurately which protocols we support.
* Provide more useful usage instructions in the documentation.
* Document the `--check-config` exit codes.
* Add more usage guidance.
* Improved prerequisites.
* Updated README and index pages.
* Remove `keyls`` credit.
* Don't explicitly set config values that are already the default.
* Document behaviour when daemon identity not specified.
* Improve a comment relating to dropping of privileges.

doc/manual/source/index.rst, after:

A KMIP to PKCS#11 Relay
=======================

.. only:: html

   |lastupdated| |mastodon|

   .. |lastupdated| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/NLnetLabs/kmip2pkcs11?path=%2Fdoc%2Fmanual&label=last%20updated
      :alt: Last docs update
      :target: https://github.com/NLnetLabs/kmip2pkcs11/commits/main/doc/manual/source

   .. |mastodon| image:: https://img.shields.io/mastodon/follow/114692612288811644?domain=social.nlnetlabs.nl&style=social
      :alt: Mastodon
      :target: https://social.nlnetlabs.nl/@nlnetlabs

.. warning::

    This project is at an experimental stage and is very much
    a work-in-progress. It should not be used in production deployments at this
    time. Furthermore, the functionality and interfaces offered should be
    considered unstable.

This Rust application accepts `KMIP
<https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/tc-community-home2?CommunityKey=39d0c648-0a66-4f46-b343-018dc7d3f19c>`_
requests, converts them to `PKCS#11
<https://groups.oasis-open.org/communities/tc-community-home2?CommunityKey=922ef643-1e10-4d65-a5ea-018dc7d3f0a4>`_
format and executes them against a loaded PKCS#11 library.

Installing or building
----------------------

As the KMIP to PKCS#11 relay (:program:`kmip2pkcs11`) is currently only intended for use
with `Cascade`_, please refer to the
installation or building instructions of Cascade `here
<https://cascade.docs.nlnetlabs.nl/en/latest/installation.html>`_.

Use Cases
---------

Shielding Cascade against an untrusted PKCS#11 library (intended use case)
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

The use case for which this application is primarily being developed is to
enable `Cascade <https://github.com/NLnetLabs/cascade/>`_ to make use of
a Hardware Security Module (HSM) via a PKCS#11 interface without having to load
an untrusted 3rd party PKCS#11 library into its process.

This is particularly important for a Rust application as the PKCS#11 interface
exposes the application to code that is likely not protected by the guarantees
provided by the Rust compiler, as the PKCS#11 is a foreign function interface
beyond which the Rust compiler cannot see.

If the PKCS#11 library experiences a fatal error that may not be reason to exit
the parent application, whether that is appropriate is highly dependent
on the purpose of that application. Any STDOUT and STDERR output produced by
the PKCS#11 library may also become mixed with output from the application
itself which can be confusing.

Other use cases
"""""""""""""""

This project could potentially act as the basis for a general purpose KMIP to
PKCS#11 relay. However, at present and for the foreseeable future we plan only
to implement the tiny fraction of the KMIP specification needed by the Cascade
project, and the only KMIP client that will be tested against will be Cascade.

Technical foundations
"""""""""""""""""""""

This application is possible thanks to the following foundational Rust crates
on which it builds:

- `cryptoki <https://crates.io/crates/cryptoki>`_
- `kmip-protocol <https://crates.io/crates/kmip-protocol>`_
- `kmip-ttlv <https://crates.io/crates/kmip-ttlv>`_
- `rustls <https://crates.io/crates/rustls>`_
- `tokio <https://crates.io/crates/tokio>`_

Supported protocols
-------------------

This application currently only supports a subset of KMIP 1.2 via the
TCP+TLS+TTLV transport. There is no support for the HTTPS+XML or HTTPS+JSON
transports defined by the KMIP profiles specification.

The loaded PKCS#11 module should conform to the PKCS#11 v2.40 specification.

Supported operations
--------------------

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| KMIP Operation                                                                                           | PKCS#11 Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | Limitations                                                         |
+==========================================================================================================+=========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================+=====================================================================+
| `Activate <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613546>`_         | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Returns with success as PKCS#11 has no notion of object activation. |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Create Key Pair <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613529>`_  | `C_GenerateKeyPair <https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v2.40/os/pkcs11-base-v2.40-os.html#_Toc235002392>`_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Only supports RSA and ECDSA at present.                             |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Discover Versions                                                                                        | N/A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Get <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613538>`_              | `C_FindObjectsInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002352>`_, `C_FindObjects <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002353>`_, `C_FindObjectsFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002354>`_ & `C_GetAttributeValue <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002350>`_                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Modify Attribute <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613542>`_ | C_SetAttributeValue                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Query <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613552>`_            | C_GetSlotInfo, C_GetTokenInfo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| `Sign <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc409613558>`_             | `C_FindObjectsInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002352>`_, `C_FindObjects <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002353>`_, `C_FindObjectsFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002354>`_, `C_SignInit <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002372>`_, `C_Sign <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc235002373>`_ & `C_SignFinal <https://docs.oasis-open.org/kmip/spec/v1.2/os/kmip-spec-v1.2-os.html#_Toc2350023753>`_ |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| N/A                                                                                                      | C_GetFunctionList, C_GetInfo, C_Initialize                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |                                                                     |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:
   :caption: Getting Started
   :name: toc-getting-started

   usage

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :hidden:
   :caption: Manual Pages
   :name: toc-manual-pages

   man/kmip2pkcs11
   man/kmip2pkcs11-config.toml
