doc/manual/source/usage.rst, before:

Usage
=====

Prerequisites
-------------

Before starting **kmip2pkcs11** you MUST specify in the configuration file the
path to the PKCS#11 module to load. The module will communicate with your HSM,
either a hardware device or a virtual HSM such as https://www.softhsm.org/.

.. note::

   **kmip2pkcs11** does NOT come with any PKCS#11 modules pre-supplied. The
   PKCS#11 module to use must match the HSM you wish to relay connections to.
   The PKCS#11 module is normally supplied by the HSM vendor. Please contact
   your HSM vendor for assistance if needed.

.. tip::

   When installed via a package a sample configuration file should have been
   created at ``/etc/kmip2pkcs11/config.toml`` which you can edit and use.

For **kmip2pkcs11** to be able to use your PKCS#11 module to communicate with
your HSM you MUST ensure that any configuration files, environment variables
or other prerequisites needed by your PKCS#11 module have been setup correctly.
Please consult the documentation for your PKCS#11 module to determine what
setup is required.

Once the configuration file has been correctly setup you can launch
**kmip2pkcs11**, no command line arguments are required. Either launch it as
the correct user that has the necessary access rights required by your PKCS#11
module, or launch it as root and configure it to change user and group to
become the required user and group immediately after startup.

The expected usage is to run **kmip2pkcs11** as a background daemon process,
either by having it daemonize itself, or by running it via a service manager
sucih as systemd. Logs are typically sent to syslog or the systemd journal.

Behaviour
---------

On startup **kmip2pkcs11** will load the configured PKCS#11 module and will
report information provided by the library at INFO level logging. It will
then wait for incoming KMIP TCP connections and convert supported requests
into the corresponding PKCS#11 request, then convert the PKCS#11 response to
the corresponding KMIP response.

Startup log output should look something like this: (with details of YOUR
PKCS#11 module and HSM, the Yubico output here is just an example)::

     [INFO] Loading and initializing PKCS#11 library /usr/lib64/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.so
     [INFO] Loaded Yubico (www.yubico.com) PKCS#11 library v2.70 supporting Cryptoki v3.1: YubiHSM PKCS#11 Library
     [WARN] Generating self-signed server identity certificate
     [INFO] Listening on 127.0.0.1:5696

Authentication
--------------

Requests to the PKCS#11 module are authenticated by "slot" and "PIN". The
"slot" and "PIN" values to use are taken from the username and password
supplied by the received KMIP request.

Further reading
---------------

  - Read the configuration file documentation at :doc:`man/kmip2pkcs11-config.toml`.
  - Learn about supported command line options at :doc:`man/kmip2pkcs11`.

Commit message:

Review feedback: --config is required.

doc/manual/source/usage.rst, after:

Usage
=====

Prerequisites
-------------

Before starting **kmip2pkcs11** you MUST specify in the configuration file the
path to the PKCS#11 module to load. The module will communicate with your HSM,
either a hardware device or a virtual HSM such as https://www.softhsm.org/.

.. note::

   **kmip2pkcs11** does NOT come with any PKCS#11 modules pre-supplied. The
   PKCS#11 module to use must match the HSM you wish to relay connections to.
   The PKCS#11 module is normally supplied by the HSM vendor. Please contact
   your HSM vendor for assistance if needed.

.. tip::

   When installed via a package a sample configuration file should have been
   created at ``/etc/kmip2pkcs11/config.toml`` which you can edit and use.

For **kmip2pkcs11** to be able to use your PKCS#11 module to communicate with
your HSM you MUST ensure that any configuration files, environment variables
or other prerequisites needed by your PKCS#11 module have been setup correctly.
Please consult the documentation for your PKCS#11 module to determine what
setup is required.

Once the configuration file has been correctly setup you can launch
``kmip2pkcs11 --config /path/to/your/config/file``. Either launch it as the
correct user that has the necessary access rights required by your PKCS#11
module, or launch it as root and configure it to change user and group to
become the required user and group immediately after startup.

The expected usage is to run **kmip2pkcs11** as a background daemon process,
either by having it daemonize itself, or by running it via a service manager
sucih as systemd. Logs are typically sent to syslog or the systemd journal.

Behaviour
---------

On startup **kmip2pkcs11** will load the configured PKCS#11 module and will
report information provided by the library at INFO level logging. It will
then wait for incoming KMIP TCP connections and convert supported requests
into the corresponding PKCS#11 request, then convert the PKCS#11 response to
the corresponding KMIP response.

Startup log output should look something like this: (with details of YOUR
PKCS#11 module and HSM, the Yubico output here is just an example)::

     [INFO] Loading and initializing PKCS#11 library /usr/lib64/pkcs11/yubihsm_pkcs11.so
     [INFO] Loaded Yubico (www.yubico.com) PKCS#11 library v2.70 supporting Cryptoki v3.1: YubiHSM PKCS#11 Library
     [WARN] Generating self-signed server identity certificate
     [INFO] Listening on 127.0.0.1:5696

Authentication
--------------

Requests to the PKCS#11 module are authenticated by "slot" and "PIN". The
"slot" and "PIN" values to use are taken from the username and password
supplied by the received KMIP request.

Further reading
---------------

  - Read the configuration file documentation at :doc:`man/kmip2pkcs11-config.toml`.
  - Learn about supported command line options at :doc:`man/kmip2pkcs11`.
